


 IMPORTANT: This is a brief plain-text summary of the main DeskLib
 =========  documentation, and is likely to be out of date.
            To see the up to date documentation, please load a web
            browser and try again.





About DeskLib
----- -------

DeskLib is a high-level library for use in the construction of C WIMP
applications for RISC OS. It is designed to work with the Castle C/C++
tools or GCC 4.x. The code in the library is designed to work on any
version of RISC OS from 3.x onwards. By providing convenient functions
to automate some of the routine tasks associated with a standard WIMP
program, it enables the programmer to spend more time on the core
functionality of their program and less on the finer details of
interacting with the WIMP. By providing standard functions, it also
helps to prevent the need to "reinvent the wheel" for common tasks. 

DeskLib was originally written as a compliment (or alternative) to
Acorn's RISC OS Lib and you can read more about the original motivations
of the writers of large chunks of the library  here  . It is now hosted
on  riscos.info  . 

DeskLib is split into functional "Modules" (which have nothing to do
with  Relocatable Modules  ) which provide set of functions to perform
different sets of tasks. Over time, different contributors have written
different implimentations of specific modules, so some are duplicated
(e.g. Font and Font2). Generally the duplicate modules will do the same
jobs in slightly different ways, so pick the one which suits you. Often,
the later modules (e.g. Font  2  ) provide a more sophisticated
interface - but at the cost of increased complexity. 

The DeskLib functions, types and variables follow a consistent naming
style, which should become apparent quite quickly. For more details, see
the  source documentation  . 

The sources for the library are freely available, either via SVN access
at  riscos.info  or as a  complete archive  . You're welcome to alter
and improve any part of the library, and even more welcome to send in
your alterations so others can benefit. 

Licence
-------

Note that although this software is supplied free of charge, copyright
applies to it. All rights are reserved, except for the following: 

This software may be copied and distributed without restriction so long
as the following conditions are met: 

- The copyright messages and these conditions are distributed intact in
all such copies 
- Only original, unaltered copies of this software are to be distributed
so that this library retains consistent over time -  please don't  alter
the library and pass it on; alter it and send alterations back to the
moderator (see below) so that your code becomes an official update
rather than a hack. 
- No profit is made through such distribution 

This software may be used in the production of any piece of software so
long as the authors acknowledge in the final product distribution that
DeskLib (or parts thereof) was used. 

This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful, but
WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE. Bug reports, fixes,
or any extra code may be sent to the moderator, who may or may not act
on them as he deems fit. 

NOTE that DeskLib is totally unaffiliated to anyone or anything. All
comments about people and companies in this product are either personal
opinion or were factual at the time of writing. Most such comments are
included only so that the user knows the REASON for things having been
done as they were. 

Credits 
-------

This library has been built up by a group of authors. Individual files
contain copyright notices for the author(s) who created them. Some of
the authors (and other contributors) are, in alphabetical order: 

Peter Arnold, Matthew Astley, Lee Atkinson, Philip Banks, Shaun
Blackmore, Cy Booker, Tim Browse, Tony Bryant, Philip Colmer, Erik de
Kort, Keith Hall, Tony Houghton, Jason Howat, Tony Howat, Peter Gaunt,
Tom Kirby-Green, David Leftley, Lenny, David Lenthall, Keith Marlow,
Stuart Martin, Sergio Monesi, Peter Naulls, Ernest Ong, Ainsley Pereira,
David Pilling, Edouard Poor, Andrew Sellors, Andrew Sidwell, Antony
Sidwell, Julian Smith, Ben Summers, Neil Tarrent, William Waghorn, Dave
Ward, Robin Watts, Jason Williams, Mark H. Wilkinson and John Winters 

Thanks also to the numerous others who have offered suggestions,
constructive criticism, etc. If you feel you have been omitted from this
list in error, then please get in touch so it can be fixed. 

Contact
-------

If you find any bugs or problems in DeskLib, or if you can supply
suggestions or code for alterations, additions, or tutorial
applications, then please either write to Peter Naulls
(peter@chocky.org), who is the current DeskLib moderator, or raise it on
the DeskLib mailing list.